well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about
ancient rome and what ancient rome
can teach us about today we're going to
do this because an archaeological find
has just captured the imagination of
people
and news of this find is being used to
send
two different subtexts out into popular
culture
one of them to me makes sense the other
one not so much
so we're going to talk about that so in
79 a.d mount vesuvius erupted
they have recently found the remains of
two people
very well preserved so well preserved in
fact
they can guess that one of them was a
slave
the other one was a wealthier person the
speculation is that it's the slaves
owner
now the subtext going out
is you know when it's all said and done
ashes to ashes lava to lava
wealthy and poor alike well we are all
just matter in the ground
and i get behind that that makes sense
good message to have out there
the other is that wealthy and poor alike
suffer the same from environmental
issues
that one i'm not so sure about i don't
know if that will make sense
because today the wealthy have access to
a whole lot of information
the obvious nod in this subtext that's
being sent out
about the environment is climate change
they have access to better information
they know where the most habitable areas
will be
in the various scenarios and they can
construct their little fallback
locations and go there with their
resources and supplies and family and
personal security and scrooge mcducky
and vault
they feel they have this already beat
i don't know that it's going to prompt
any positive action from them
i think that if you want to create a
teachable moment
using rome for the wealthy of the world
in regards to climate change it might be
better to talk about the praetorian
guard
the praetorian guard was
the personal guard and intelligence
service of the roman elite
particularly the emperor their main job
was to keep the emperor safe
and they did a really good job with this
with
the notable exceptions of caligula and
commodus
and numerian and gordian the third
there's like a dozen of them
that they took out or that they assisted
in taking out
that might be a better uh subtext to be
putting out there
because unless the wealthy plan on
selling themselves inside bunkers
they're going to need security
professionals
because there's going to be a human
element on the outside so you need one
on the inside to meet it
once those security professionals
realize that with fewer people those
resources will last
longer they will turn on their employers
the way trump turns on a new hire
that might be a better message to have
out there
in in public discourse
because they're going to need them and
there's no real way around it it doesn't
matter how much automation you include
you're going to need a human element on
the inside
to protect against the human element on
the outside and the human element on the
inside can be corrupted
and ethics tend to slip
pretty quickly in survival situations
that may be the best message out there
i don't know that appealing to the
better nature
of the wealthier in the world is going
to produce any results
if appealing to the better nature was
going to do anything we probably would
already see action
and we really don't not enough
so maybe that's a more powerful
motivating tool
rather than just the idea that at the
end
we'll all be the same because we won't
you and i don't have helicopters they do
anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good day